# Surface Consistency Coefficient

## Preprint
[1] Rottmayer, Niklas and Redenbach, Claudia. A Novel Distance-Based Metric for Quality Assessment in Image Segmentation. 2025. arXiv:2504.00023 [cs.CV]

## Information
This repository contains data supporting our article about quality assessment in binary image segmentation [1]. It includes
- **datatables** containing calculated quality metrics of synthetic segmentation results
- **code** (MATLAB) for the generation of synthetic segmentation results from a binary image and the calculation of the quality metrics.

*The 3D image files of the utilized geometries are available upon reasonable request due to their file size.*

A set of 20 different synthetic images generated by using Boolean models (30%-70% density) and random packings (10% density) were used. For each geometry a set of synthetic segmentations introducing systematic errors was calculated for error rates ranging betwen 1% and 15% in 1% increments. Afterwards a series of traditional quality metrics based on distinguishing between true positive (TP), true negative (TN), false positive (FP) and false negative (FN) are calculated. This includes well-established examples such as accuracy, Dice coefficient, Jaccard index or Matthews correlation coeffient. In addition to traditional metircs, distance-based metrics are added to which our own proposition can be attributed. 

The **Surface Consistency Coefficient** is a distance-based metrics which summarizes the spatial distribution of incorrectly labeled pixels. It is normalized, interpretable and independent of the error quantity. This makes it ideal to be combined with traditional metrics such as the accuracy for assessing the quality of segmentations by independently assessing error quantity and positioning. 

